BCP-003-01 Requirements for NMOS Controllers (#5)
AMWA-TV/bcp-003-01: docs/Controllers.md

### Execution Environment

A Controller MAY delegate fully or partially the establishment of secure communication channels to services in the execution environment.

Collectively, the Controller and those services MUST fulfil the requirements in this specification.
 
A Controller MUST only delegate to services that fulfil the following requirements and recommendations.

## TLS

Controllers MUST follow the requirements set out in the [TLS section of the Secure Communications document](Secure%20Communication.md#tls) in this specification.

A Controller MUST check the validity of a server's certificate and MUST NOT continue the communication with a server after a failed TLS handshake, except with the express permission of the user.

## Client Behaviour

Controllers MUST follow the requirements set out in the [Client Behaviour section of the Secure Communications document](Secure%20Communication.md#client-behaviour), along with the following requirements.

### Certificate Management

A Controller or its execution environment MUST provide a secure mechanism for installing, storing and removing X.509 v3 client certificate and its associated private key.

> Either the Controller or the controller environment should provide a secure mechanism for installing, storing and removing the Certificate Authority (CA) certificates.

Reviewer: @jonathan-r-thorpe I assume this is intended to be conformance language?

```suggestion
Either the Controller or the controller environment SHOULD provide a secure mechanism for installing, storing and removing the Certificate Authority (CA) certificates.
```

### HTTP

> A Controller acting as an HTTP client, configured to use a secure communication channel MUST only make HTTPS requests (`https://`) using a TLS version and cipher suite allowed by this specification. It MUST NOT make insecure HTTP requests (`http://`) that do not use TLS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Controller acting as an HTTP client, configured to use a secure communication channel, MUST only make HTTPS requests (`https://`) using a TLS version and cipher suite allowed by this specification. It MUST NOT make insecure HTTP requests (`http://`).
```

* This document covers how the Controller interacts with the NMOS APIs only.
  It does not cover other features of the Controller software, such as presentation.
* This document does not cover any requirements relating to where a Controller is additionally acting as a Node (e.g. receiving monitoring information via IS-07).

## User

Where this document refers to the "user" of a Controller, this includes both human operators who drive the Controller manually and automation systems that drive the Controller programmatically.

## Secure NMOS Controller

### Secure Communications	

An NMOS system with secure commmunication is one in which Controllers, Nodes, Registries, and other servers, both support and have been configured to enable the security requirements described in this specification.

Where a Controller has been configured to enable secure communication channels the implementation of such secure communication channel MUST follow the requirements in this specification.

### Execution Environment

A Controller MAY delegate fully or partially the establishment of secure communication channels to services in the execution environment.

> Collectively, the Controller and those services MUST fulfill the requirements in this specification.
>  
> A Controller MUST only delegate to services that fulfill the following requirements and recommendations.

Reviewer: Hmm...

🇬🇧 Behaviour
🇺🇸 Fulfill

```suggestion
Collectively, the Controller and those services MUST fulfil the requirements in this specification.
 
A Controller MUST only delegate to services that fulfil the following requirements and recommendations.
```

## TLS

> Controllers MUST follow the TLS requirements set out in the [TLS section of the Secure Communications document](Secure%20Communication.md#tls) in this specification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Controllers MUST follow the requirements set out in the [TLS section of the Secure Communications document](Secure%20Communication.md#tls) in this specification.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

A Controller MUST check the validity of a server's certificate and MUST NOT continue the communication with a server after a failed TLS handshake, except with the express permission of the user.

```

## Client Behaviour

> Controllers MUST follow the Client Behaviour requirements set out in the [Client Behaviour section of the Secure Communications document](Secure%20Communication.md#client-behaviour) along with the following requirements:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Controllers MUST follow the requirements set out in the [Client Behaviour section of the Secure Communications document](Secure%20Communication.md#client-behaviour), along with the following requirements.
```

### Certificate Management

A Controller or its execution environment MUST provide a secure mechanism for installing, storing and removing X.509 v3 client certificate and its associated private key.

> Either controller, or controller environment should provide a secure mechanism for installing, storing and removing the CA certificates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Either the Controller or the controller environment should provide a secure mechanism for installing, storing and removing the Certificate Authority (CA) certificates.
```

### HTTP

> A Controller acting as an HTTP client, configured to use a secure communication channel MUST only make HTTPS requests using a TLS version and cipher suite allowed by this specification.
> 
> A Controller MUST not allow HTTP requests that do not use TLS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Controller acting as an HTTP client, configured to use a secure communication channel MUST only make HTTPS requests (`https://`) using a TLS version and cipher suite allowed by this specification. It MUST NOT make insecure HTTP requests (`http://`) that do not use TLS.

```

> It MUST check the validity of the server�s certificate and MUST NOT continue the communication with a server after a failed TLS handshake, except with the express permission of the user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It MUST check the validity of the server's certificate and MUST NOT continue the communication with a server after a failed TLS handshake, except with the express permission of the user.
```

Reviewer: @jonathan-r-thorpe This applies also to Secure WebSocket and other protocols over TLS, doesn't it?

> It MUST check the validity of the server�s certificate and MUST NOT continue the communication with a server after a failed TLS handshake, except with the express permission of the user.
> 

Reviewer: @jonathan-r-thorpe OK to move to TLS section since it also applies to Secure WebSocket and other protocols over TLS?

```suggestion
```

### WebSocket

A Controller acting as a WebSocket (WS) client, configured to use a secure communication channel MUST only make Secure WebSocket (WSS) requests using a TLS version and cipher suite allowed by this specification,

> and MUST NOT make non-Secure WebSocket (WS) requests.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and MUST NOT make insecure WebSocket (WS) requests.
```

> A Controller acting as a WebSocket (WS) client, configured to use a secure communication channel MUST only make Secure WebSocket (WSS) requests using a TLS version and cipher suite allowed by this specification,
> and MUST NOT make non-Secure WebSocket (WS) requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Controller acting as a WebSocket client, configured to use a secure communication channel, MUST only make Secure WebSocket (`wss://`) requests using a TLS version and cipher suite allowed by this specification,
and MUST NOT make insecure WebSocket (`ws://`) requests.
```

### Other Protocols	

> A Controller acting as a client, configured to use a secure communication channel using any other protocol that supports TLS MUST only make requests using a TLS version and cipher suite allowed by this document. It MUST only make requests using TLS. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Controller acting as a client, configured to use a secure communication channel using any other protocol that supports TLS, MUST only make requests using a TLS version and cipher suite allowed by this document. It MUST only make requests using TLS. 
```
